# Free Broken Pi, the Butterfly stole my laptop, and DarkLight
## This time, my MacBook Pro went in for keyboard repair, I got a free Raspberry Pi that didn't work, and I released an app.

*This post has been a work in progress for a few weeks, as things have been rather crazy in my life! I'm planning to write a post every Sunday, though. Hopefully.*

### Free Raspberry Pi...that doesn't work
A few weeks ago, I got a new Raspberry Pi through that I got for free. I'm part of the team 'Put It Down' in the [Longitude Explorer Prize 2019-2020](https://longitudeexplorer.challenges.org/), so, when we reached the final, we all got a Raspberry Pi 3a Starter kit through. It's cool, but one USB port certainly is a pain. I just don't see how anyone could use that - sure, you can use the command line, but it boots to the Raspbrian GUI out of the box and you need a mouse to advance through setup, then a keyboard to change the default password and connect to WiFi. It's possible to use just a keyboard in the GUI, but who wants to continuously hit Tab just to press a button? On top of all of this, the included SD card didn't work. I inserted it into the Pi and used a working Micro USB cable (that wasn't included, more on that later) and the light was just red. After some research, this indicates that the Pi can't find an OS to boot, so I decided to reflash Raspbrian. No problem, and it's permanently cached on my Mac anyway as the offical imager is awful. (Seriously, I couldn't find the cache anywhere and even AppCleaner didn't find it, indicating that if I were to remove the .app then Raspbrian would stay. It's also a version from February and I can't make it use the latest version because it's already got an OS cached. Unless I manually download it from the Pi website, but at that point I might as well use Etcher.) So I went to reflash the OS, and the SD card couldn't be detected by macOS. I tried a Windows 7 machine (all I had at the time...) and that didn't detect the SD either. I tried multiple microSD to SD or USB adapters, but nothing worked. So they sent me a dud SD card. Cool. I tried to flash the OS to another SD card, but all of the ones I had didn't work. There was an 8GB one that was missing a chunk out of it physically, which didn't work obviously. I put it in my USB-C hub and forgot about it for a bit - then, when I went to take it out, [this happened](https://twitter.com/ThisIsNoahEvans/status/1262409785540034560?s=20). Again, not so good. I had two more microSD cards - the one in my Pi 3b which runs my Twitter bots, and a '512GB' fake SD card that is only 64GB. My grandad got it for £3 on Wish a while back, and I really hope he's not using it in his camera. The '512GB' one has previously worked for my GoPro when I needed less than 64GB, so it should work here, right? No, after flashing Raspbrian to the card my Pi would not boot. One last attack - try the SD card that's currently working in my Pi 3b. And guess what - it worked! So it's not a hardware issue with the Pi itself - cool. (I've swicthed my Twitter bots over to the Pi 3a as for sending text and images to Twitter, Ethernet isn't essential, and it also means that I can use my better-equipped Pi 3b for more active tasks that might require more USB ports, Ethernet, etc.) The organisers of the competition sent me through a new full kit, with Pi, case, and SD card which is very nice. I'm yet to open it, but I expect it to work as everyone else in the team has theirs working.

### The Butterfly Claimed Another Victim
On Tuesday, I erased my MacBook for it to get sent to Apple for repair because my left shift key had stopped working. I was waiting for Apple Stores to start to reopen in the UK as I didn't think they were doing mail-in repairs, but after speaking to someone at Apple, it became clear that they were, in fact, still doing repairs. Phew, becuase I do like having a shift key! I was sent all of the details to ship it, organised a pickup through UPS, and sent my laptop off. The UPS website was not very helpful. Firstly, it didn't like my phone number. I had to do some playing about with +44, 07, +447, +4407, and more to get past that stage. Then I was asked what type of service to use. The label included in the mail-in pack said UPS Saver, but there wasn't an option for UPS Saver on the website. Typical. I ended up choosing UPS Express Saver or something, but it worked nonetheless. My Mac was picked up two hours after I requested the pickup (**TWO** hours!) and was sent to the Czech Republic for repair. Within 24 hours, I had an email that Apple had my Mac, and within another 8 hours, the repair was complete and my Mac was on its way back to me - absolutely AMAZING service. I was sent a tracking number that worked this time (I wasn't able to track it on the way to Apple), and after being "Ready for UPS" at 15:36 the day after I had the laptop picked up from my house, it travelled across Europe and back to my front door. My tracking app shows me that it went from Poland (Origin Scan, then Departure Scan), to Germany (Arrival Scan, then Departure Scan), to Tamworth, England (Arrival Scan, then Departure Scan), then Exeter, England (Arrival Scan, then Departure Scan), and finally "Out for Delivery" from Exeter to my home in Plymouth. That took four days - four days of me waiting for my Mac. Then, it arrived one afternoon and I was happy again. I'd erased the SSD before sending it in for security, but they'd reinstalled Catalina. I set that up before erasing the drive again, as I wanted to take the opportunity to film a few [Mac Installers](https://macinstallers.tech) YouTube videos. I filmed one explaining Internet Recovery, and what to do if you have the "folder question mark" icon on your Mac. That reinstalled High Sierra, the original OS on my 2018 MacBook Pro. I then filmed a video detailing how to install High Sierra, Mojave, or Catalina on your Mac, and quite possibly every version of OS X and macOS that comes as a .app, but I've only tested those three so will only say it works with those three. Both videos will be edited and uploaded soon, so make sure you follow Mac Installers on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/macinstallers) for updates. After I'd finished filming, I updated to Catalina, shouted at my old hard drive for corrupting my Time Machine backup, and started fresh. I'm actually copying all of my other files fro, that drive (it had two partitions) as we speak. Well, as I type. We're not speaking, and by the time you're reading this, it'll hopefully be done.

### DarkLight - my first "proper" app release
Earlier this week, I released DarkLight - a simple menu bar tool to change your System Appearence quickly. It's the next stage of an app I first made about a year and a half ago, but now, instead of an Automator app, it's 100% Swift. I mean, it does run a workflow to change the theme, but that's reliable, will get chages with macOS updates (if I were to use a Swift function or something, that could be removed in the future, not work with new versions of Swift, decide to be Swift and just say "no, I'm not working today", etc...) and is already installed on every version of macOS. I want to get this app on the Mac App Store, but that's currently not possible. The app was self contained (a single .app that would run in your menu bar) but whilst trying to get it onto the App Store, I added a helper tool and couldn't be bothered to change it. I needed a helper tool as Sandboxed apps, which all App Store apps have to be, cannot run workflows through the Automator framework / module. In an effort to get it onto the App Store, I sandboxed the main menu bar app and created a helper tool, not sandboxed, which would run the actual script to change the system theme. This works, and is how the app currently runs at release, but leaves a lot of things to go wrong. Delete the helper tool, in /Library/Application Support/VelocityApps.DarkLight-Menu-Bar, and the app won't work. I've hidden it in Application Support so the average user doesn't find it - if they're going to delete my helper tool, they might as well delete the helper tools of every app ever - but I'm still not too keen on it. If I want the app on the App Store though, which I do, I have no choice due to sandboxing. I created a .pkg installer with the main app and the helper tool, to submit to the App Store, but Transporter didn't like the helper tool. It said that the ID of the helper tool wasn't registered - which it wasn't, so I did. Then it said it couldn't find anywhere to upload the app, which is correct, becuase the helper tool ID that it seemed to oh so love wasn't an app. The main ID was. So I changed my App Store listing to the helper ID. That got me further, but it still didn't like about 18 things. So until I can work out how to get a helper tool onto the App Store with a main app (it must be possible, even Microsoft Office is on the App Store and that definitely has helper tools), DarkLight will be distributed through Velocity Apps' [website](https://velocityapps.tech). You can download DarkLight for free from [here](https://velocityapps.tech/darklight), and view the source code [here](https://github.com/velocityapps/darklight). If you have any feedback, or a way to get this app on the App Store, please DM either [me](https://twitter.com/thsisnoahevans) or [Velocity](https://twitter.com/velocityappshq) on Twitter. Thank you!

### Thank you for reading!
That's it for this week, and I hope you enjoyed it. Next week, I'll be talking more about my iOS apps, WWDC, and whatever happens between now and then. Have an amazing week, and don't forget to follow me on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/thsisnoahevans) and [Instagram](https://instagram.com/noahthedev) for updates on what I'm doing.
